#
# libslack - http://libslack.org/
#
# Copyright (C) 1999-2002, 2004, 2010, 2020-2021 raf <raf@raf.org>
#
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
# the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
# (at your option) any later version.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program; if not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
#
# 20210220 raf <raf@raf.org>

=head1 NAME

I<libslack-config> - administrative tool for libslack

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 libslack-config [options]
 options:

   -h, --help      - Print this help and exit
   -v, --version   - Print the version of the currently installed libslack
   -L, --latest    - Print the latest version of libslack (uses wget)
   -D, --download  - Download the latest version of libslack (uses wget)
   -U, --upgrade   - Upgrade to the latest version of libslack (uses wget)
   -p, --prefix    - Print the prefix directory of the libslack installation
   -c, --cflags    - Print CFLAGS needed to compile clients of libslack
   -l, --libs      - Print LDFLAGS needed to link against libslack
   -l, --ldflags   - Identical to --libs
   -u, --uninstall - Uninstall libslack

 Note: The dashes are optional for long option names

 Command line example:
   gcc -o app app.c `libslack-config --cflags --libs`

 Makefile example:
   APP_CFLAGS  += $(shell libslack-config --cflags)
   APP_LDFLAGS += $(shell libslack-config --libs)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<libslack-config> is an administrative tool for I<libslack(3)>. It can
print the compiler and linker flags that are needed to compile and link
programs that use I<libslack(3)>. It can also print the version of the
currently installed I<libslack(3)> or print the latest version available at
C<http://www.libslack.org/>. It can also download the latest version. It can
also upgrade libslack. It can also uninstall libslack.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item C<-h>, C<--help>

Print a help message and exit.

=item C<-v>, C<--version>

Print the version of the currently installed I<libslack>.

=item C<-L>, C<--latest>

Print the latest version of I<libslack> available at
C<http://libslack.org/>.

=item C<-D>, C<--download>

Download the latest version of I<libslack> from
C<http://libslack.org/>.

=item C<-U>, C<--upgrade>

Upgrade to the latest version of I<libslack> from
C<http://libslack.org/>. This downloads the latest
version, configures it, compiles it, uninstalls the currently installed
version and then installs the new version wherever the current version
was installed.

=item C<-p>, C<--prefix>

Print the prefix directory under which I<libslack> was installed.

=item C<-c>, C<--cflags>

Print the compiler flags needed to compile code that uses I<libslack>.

=item C<-l>, C<--libs>, C<--ldflags>

Print the linker flags needed to link code against I<libslack>.

=item C<-u>, C<--uninstall>

Uninstall I<libslack>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<http://libslack.org/>,
I<libslack(3)>,
I<agent(3)>,
I<coproc(3)>,
I<daemon(3)>,
I<err(3)>,
I<fio(3)>,
I<getopt(3)>,
I<hsort(3)>,
I<lim(3)>,
I<link(3)>,
I<list(3)>,
I<locker(3)>,
I<map(3)>,
I<mem(3)>,
I<msg(3)>,
I<net(3)>,
I<prog(3)>,
I<prop(3)>,
I<pseudo(3)>,
I<sig(3)>,
I<snprintf(3)>,
I<str(3)>,
I<vsscanf(3)>

=head1 AUTHOR

20210220 raf <raf@raf.org>

=cut
